docs: document issue triage and the ready-for-dev gate (#750)
All-Hands-AI/docs: overview/issue-lifecycle.mdx

---

# Issue Triage and the ready-for-dev Gate

OpenHands uses automated labeling and readiness checks to route issues toward development. Understanding this lifecycle helps you file issues that are picked up quickly and open pull requests that pass validation on the first try.

Two repositories are covered here:

- **OpenHands/OpenHands** (the monorepo: app, CLI, and Agent Canvas frontend)
- **OpenHands/software-agent-sdk** (the Agent SDK)

## What Happens After You File an Issue

The labeling pipeline differs between the two repositories, but both converge on the same readiness check.

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="OpenHands/OpenHands (monorepo)">
    1. **Type label at creation.** The issue form templates apply the type label (`bug` or `enhancement`) when the issue is created.
    2. **Topic and priority labels.** The all-hands-bot app adds topic and priority labels later.
    3. **Readiness check.** Once a type label is present, the issue readiness workflow evaluates the body against the type-specific criteria below and applies the `ready-for-dev` label within about a minute if they are met.

    <Note>

>       An issue filed outside the web form (for example via the GitHub CLI or API) starts with no labels. The all-hands-bot app usually adds a type label within about an hour here too — but if it abstains, the issue waits for a human triager. Only once a type label is present does the readiness check run.

Reviewer: This is an issue without a template, right? I think the agent is able to apply the template, but it forgets 😄 
```suggestion
      When your agent files an issue, it might forget to check the templates, in which case the issue will have no labels. The all-hands-bot app usually adds a type label within about an hour here too — but if it abstains, the issue waits for a human triager. Only once a type label is present does the readiness check run.
```
